We are going to get into TypeScript, and
specifically React with
TypeScript together.
So this is definitely not going to
be a full intro to TypeScript, or
even really a full intro to React and
TypeScript together.
Mostly what we're gonna talk about
is we're just going to talk about,
we have this existing application, what's
it like to migrate that to TypeScript?
And along the way, you'll pick up some
TypeScript things here and there.
But specifically,
before we got too much into this,
I wanna call out two courses that if
you're interested in React and TypeScript,
one, first take Mike North's course.
Mike North, he's my coworker,
he was my coworker at LinkedIn, and
now we just hired him to be on my
team at Stripe, which is awesome.
He has this course here,
TypeScript Fundamentals,
take that one first, it's good one.
And then after that, take Steve's course,
which is React and TypeScript together, so
Steve gets much more in depth.
This is a five-hour course just
on React and TypeScript together.
So if that's really what your jam is,
that's your progression forward from here.
That being said, I wanted to show you
what our Adopt Me pet application looks
like if you migrate it
totally to TypeScript.
So this is kind of just a useful
exercise for you to witness like,
I have a Javascript app.
What's it like going from
a Javascript app to a TypeScript app?
Okay, I love TypeScript, just for
the record, the VS Code team and
the TypeScript team at
Microsoft are the same team.
So I used to work with all
the TypeScript people, and so,
I'm always really happy
when I get to work with it.
Okay, so we're gonna do this, we're
gonna do npm install typescript@4.8.4.
Make sure you're starting with
a fresh copy of Adopt Me.
All right, so
I'm just making a copy of that
14-context directory,
it's this one here, yeah.
And then I'm gonna go into the directory,
I'm going to remove Node modules, and
reinstall all of my Node modules.
Okay, and then I should be ready to go.
So I have a fresh copy of my project.
And then, now I'm gonna say npm
install -D typescript@4.8.4.
Cool, next thing I wanna do
here is I'm gonna run npx tsc,
which is the TypeScript compiler, right?
And then I wanna run that with --init,
just like we did for
Tailwind, it's gonna start
a whole project for us.
You'll see that it's going to generate
here a TypeScript config for us here, and
it's quite long.
So you can go through, and
there's a bunch of stuff you can change.
Or you can just come over here,
I have this little minimalistic
one here that we're gonna use.
So target ES2022, so
the latest version of ECMAScript,
the flavor of JSX that we're
gonna use is react-jsx.
There's several versions of this,
I do not remember what the difference is.
We used to do preserve here,
I think, right?
But now we have to do react-jsx, and
I'm trying to remember exactly
what that does differently.
I think it means that we don't
have to import React anymore,
it's something like that.
So this is the newer way of doing it.
Modules, we're doing the new
way of doing modules,
we're doing Node modules,
esModuleInterop, yes.
Strict mode, if you're gonna
migrate a whole project to React,
you wanna have strict mode enabled.
If you're just starting, let's say you
have a huge codebase, and you're just
gonna piecemeal start doing little pieces
of it, then you can turn strict mode off.
And then, yeah,
we don't wanna check our Node modules, so
that's basically everything here.
So nice little minimalistic
TypeScript config here.
Okay, save that, cool.
So next thing that we need,
is we need the types for React.
React is not itself written in TypeScript,
I believe it might be written in Flow, or
it might just be written in JavaScript,
I can't remember.
In any case, it does not have
types that ship with it, so
we have to say down here npm install
-D @types/react@18.0.21,
and @types/react-dom@18.0.6
So if you're not familiar with this,
we just installed these types files here.
So basically,
what TypeScript is gonna say, okay,
I can see that React
doesn't have types with it.
So what I'm gonna go do, is I'm going
to go look in your Node directory and
see if you have any of these types file.
There's a massive project
called Definitely Typed,
where if a library
doesn't have types in it,
because it's not written in TypeScript or
something like that.
Someone later can go and
write types for it, and
then you can install them separately,
which is exactly what we've done here.
And for example, we don't have
to install one for react-query,
we don't have to install them for
react-router-dom,
because both of these
are written in TypeScript as is.
Therefore we don't need additional types
because they are inherently already typed.
Cool.
So, I guess if you're not
familiar with TypeScript, one,
I'm impressed you've gotten
this far into an intermediate
React class with not having been
exposed to it, so congratulations.
But basically, we have Prettier
to handle all of our formatting,
we have ESLint to handle all of our
stylistic choices about our code.
We'll eventually have unit testing
to test all the integrations.
And TypeScript is gonna follow
all of the types of our code.
I mean, the classic example
is that you can't do things
like const x = 5, and
then x.toUppercase, right?
People like to say that TypeScript
prevents things like this, which is true,
it does, right?
I don't really have this problem too much,
to be totally frank with you.
What is much more helpful is it's
basically live documentation about what
your code looks like.
So every time that you do something
like hey, I have this usebreedList here,
you can see that I have this animal: any,
and all this kind of stuff.
This is actually all generated from
TypeScript running on your code.
So VS Code, no matter what you're doing,
is running TypeScript on
your code all the time.
And it generates all these
kind of call signatures.
So you can see this useBreedList,
because it's one that I wrote,
doesn't really have too much
interesting information about it.
But if I go look at useState,
you can see actually you have
a ton of information there.
That I have this initial state that's
a string, I have a React dispatch,
which has a set action state,
which is of a string type.
It has a bunch of interesting
information about it,
which is coming from those types
that we just installed, right?
This is great, but right now we
only have it for our library code.
I love TypeScript, because now, once we go
do all of the typing for all of our code,
we're gonna start seeing all of that for
our code as well.
So like I said, it's like living
documentation of the intention that
you had when you wrote this code.
Right now, I know I provide useBreedList
at animal to any, what is any?
We don't know, right?
But after we're done with this, we're
gonna see if it's of type animal, which is
gonna be an enumerated type, which is
gonna be only one small subset of animals.
And so, if I try and
put something in here, like horse, right?
Well, horse is an animal, but
it's not one that our API supports.
So we're actually gonna have
TypeScript catch that error for us,
which I think is pretty cool.
That's my pitch on why I like TypeScript.